docs/api/core.md, before:






# Core API
<!--
DO NOT EDIT
This file is generated using the ./scripts/build-proto.sh scripts
Please update the Core file
-->

This is the primary API to interact with MESG Core functionalities.
It can be consumed by any applications or tools that you'd like to interact with MESG Core.
It is actually used by the MESG CLI and MESG Application libraries.

This API is only accessible through [gRPC](https://grpc.io/).

Services must not use this API, but rather use the [Service API](./service.md).

The source file of this API is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/mesg-foundation/core/blob/master/api/core/api.proto).

[[toc]]


## ListenEvent

Subscribe to a stream that listens for events from a service.

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">

























#### ListenEventRequest
The request's data for the `ListenEvent` stream's API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID":   "__SERVICE_ID__",
  "eventFilter": "__EVENT_KEY_TO_MATCH__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |
| eventFilter | [string](#string) | __Optional.__ Event's key to filter. The event must match this key. The default is `*` which matches any event. |

















</tab>

<tab title="Reply">











#### EventData
The data received from the stream of the `ListenEvent` API.
The data will be received over time as long as the stream is open.

**Example**
```json
{
  "eventKey":  "__EVENT_KEY__",
  "eventData": "{\"foo\":\"bar\"}"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| eventKey | [string](#string) | The event's key. |
| eventData | [string](#string) | The event's data encoded in JSON. |































</tab>
</tabs>

## ListenResult

Subscribe to a stream that listens for task's result from a service.

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">



























#### ListenResultRequest
The request's data for the `ListenResult` stream API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID":     "__SERVICE_ID__",
  "taskFilter":    "__TASK_KEY_TO_MATCH__",
  "outputFilter":  "__OUTPUT_KEY_TO_MATCH__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |
| taskFilter | [string](#string) | __Optional.__  The task's key to filter. The task must match this key. The default is `*` which matches any task. |
| outputFilter | [string](#string) | __Optional.__ The output's key from the task to filter. The task must return this output's key. The default is `*` which matches any output. |















</tab>

<tab title="Reply">





























#### ResultData
The data received from the stream of the `ListenResult` API.
The data will be received over time as long as the stream is open.

**Example**
```json
{
  "executionID": "__EXECUTION_ID__",
  "taskKey":     "__TASK_KEY__",
  "outputKey":   "__OUTPUT_KEY__",
  "outputData":  "{\"foo\":\"bar\"}"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| executionID | [string](#string) | The unique identifier of the execution. |
| taskKey | [string](#string) | The key of the executed task. |
| outputKey | [string](#string) | The output's key from the returned task. |
| outputData | [string](#string) | The output's data from the returned task, encoded in JSON. |













</tab>
</tabs>

## ExecuteTask

Execute a service's task through [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md).

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">















#### ExecuteTaskRequest
The request's data for the `ExecuteTask` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__",
  "taskKey":   "__TASK_KEY__",
  "inputData": "{\"foo\":\"bar\"}"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |
| taskKey | [string](#string) | The task's key to execute. |
| inputData | [string](#string) | The inputs of the task to execute, encoded in JSON. |



























</tab>

<tab title="Reply">













#### ExecuteTaskReply
The reply's data of the `ExecuteTask` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "executionID": "__EXECUTION_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| executionID | [string](#string) | The unique identifier of the execution. |





























</tab>
</tabs>

## StartService

Start a service. The service must be already deployed to [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md).

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">

































#### StartServiceRequest
The request's data for the `StartService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |









</tab>

<tab title="Reply">































#### StartServiceReply
Reply of `StartService` API doesn't contain any data.











</tab>
</tabs>

## StopService

Stop a service. The service must be already deployed to [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md).

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">





































#### StopServiceRequest
The request's data for the `StopService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |





</tab>

<tab title="Reply">



































#### StopServiceReply
Reply of `StopService` API doesn't contain any data.







</tab>
</tabs>

## DeployService

Deploy a service to [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md). This will give you an unique identifier which is used to interact with the service.

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">









#### DeployServiceRequest
The request's data for `DeployService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "service": {
    "name": "serviceX",
    "events": {
      "eventX": {
        "data": {
          "dataX": { "type": "String" }
        }
      }
    },
    "tasks": {
      "taskX": {
        "inputs": {
          "foo": { "type": "String" }
        },
        "outputs": {
          "outputX": {
            "data": {
              "resX": { "type": "String" }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| service | [service.Service](#service.Service) | The service's definition to deploy. [Details here](./service-type.md). |

































</tab>

<tab title="Reply">







#### DeployServiceReply
The reply's data of `DeployService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The generated identifier of the deployed service. Use this ID with other APIs. |



































</tab>
</tabs>

## DeleteService

Delete a service from Core. This function only deletes a deployed service in [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md). If the service's code is on your computer, the source code will not be deleted.

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">





#### DeleteServiceRequest
Request's data of the `DeleteService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |





































</tab>

<tab title="Reply">



#### DeleteServiceReply
Reply of `DeleteService` API doesn't contain any data.







































</tab>
</tabs>

## ListServices

List all services already deployed in [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md).

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">























#### ListServicesRequest
Reply of `ListServices` API doesn't contain any data.



















</tab>

<tab title="Reply">





















#### ListServicesReply
The reply's data of the `ListServices` API.

**Example**
```json
[{
  "service": {
    "name": "serviceX",
    "events": {
      "eventX": {
        "data": {
          "dataX": { "type": "String" }
        }
      }
    },
    "tasks": {
      "taskX": {
        "inputs": {
          "foo": { "type": "String" }
        },
        "outputs": {
          "outputX": {
            "data": {
              "resX": { "type": "String" }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}]
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| services | [service.Service](#service.Service)[] | The list of previously-deployed services' definitions. [Details here](./service-type.md). |





















</tab>
</tabs>

## GetService

Get the definition of an already-deployed service from its ID.

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">



















#### GetServiceRequest
The request's data for the `GetService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |























</tab>

<tab title="Reply">

















#### GetServiceReply
The reply's data of the `GetService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "service": {
    "name": "serviceX",
    "events": {
      "eventX": {
        "data": {
          "dataX": { "type": "String" }
        }
      }
    },
    "tasks": {
      "taskX": {
        "inputs": {
          "foo": { "type": "String" }
        },
        "outputs": {
          "outputX": {
            "data": {
              "resX": { "type": "String" }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| service | [service.Service](#service.Service) | Service's definition. [Details here](./service-type.md). |

























</tab>
</tabs>

Commit message:

move service deployment related server side logic from cli, closes #366
* update api/core/api.proto for the new version of DeployService API.
* run latest version of protoc & protoc-gen-go on api/core and api/service proto files.
* add Id field to service proto.
* add ca-certificates to Dockerfile.
* import path of spinner changed to github.com/mesg-foundation/spinner.
* DeployService API updated to receive a Git URL or data chunks of service.tar.gz to deploy a service.
* service deployment related server side logic removed from cmd/service and cmd/service updated to meet with new DeployService API.
* some of the deploy status messages printed to stdout removed/changed.
* update tests of api/core to meet with updated DeployService API.
* a sample unit test added to api/core at deploy_test.go.
* Server type of api/core made newable and MESGOption() added.
* api/service tests updated to workaround different service.Hash() computations because of newly introduced Id field on Service type.
(this will be reverted after Service type created by hand in service package.)
* database/services updated to meet with changes on its Save() method and new Id field on Service type.
* new package mesg added. mesg is responsible to expose all features of core with a nice API.
api handlers will use methods from mesg package to interact with core's features.

docs/api/core.md, after:






# Core API
<!--
DO NOT EDIT
This file is generated using the ./scripts/build-proto.sh scripts
Please update the Core file
-->

This is the primary API to interact with MESG Core functionalities.
It can be consumed by any applications or tools that you'd like to interact with MESG Core.
It is actually used by the MESG CLI and MESG Application libraries.

This API is only accessible through [gRPC](https://grpc.io/).

Services must not use this API, but rather use the [Service API](./service.md).

The source file of this API is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/mesg-foundation/core/blob/master/api/core/api.proto).

[[toc]]


## ListenEvent

Subscribe to a stream that listens for events from a service.

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">

























#### ListenEventRequest
The request's data for the `ListenEvent` stream's API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID":   "__SERVICE_ID__",
  "eventFilter": "__EVENT_KEY_TO_MATCH__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |
| eventFilter | [string](#string) | __Optional.__ Event's key to filter. The event must match this key. The default is `*` which matches any event. |

















</tab>

<tab title="Reply">











#### EventData
The data received from the stream of the `ListenEvent` API.
The data will be received over time as long as the stream is open.

**Example**
```json
{
  "eventKey":  "__EVENT_KEY__",
  "eventData": "{\"foo\":\"bar\"}"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| eventKey | [string](#string) | The event's key. |
| eventData | [string](#string) | The event's data encoded in JSON. |































</tab>
</tabs>

## ListenResult

Subscribe to a stream that listens for task's result from a service.

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">



























#### ListenResultRequest
The request's data for the `ListenResult` stream API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID":     "__SERVICE_ID__",
  "taskFilter":    "__TASK_KEY_TO_MATCH__",
  "outputFilter":  "__OUTPUT_KEY_TO_MATCH__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |
| taskFilter | [string](#string) | __Optional.__  The task's key to filter. The task must match this key. The default is `*` which matches any task. |
| outputFilter | [string](#string) | __Optional.__ The output's key from the task to filter. The task must return this output's key. The default is `*` which matches any output. |















</tab>

<tab title="Reply">





























#### ResultData
The data received from the stream of the `ListenResult` API.
The data will be received over time as long as the stream is open.

**Example**
```json
{
  "executionID": "__EXECUTION_ID__",
  "taskKey":     "__TASK_KEY__",
  "outputKey":   "__OUTPUT_KEY__",
  "outputData":  "{\"foo\":\"bar\"}"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| executionID | [string](#string) | The unique identifier of the execution. |
| taskKey | [string](#string) | The key of the executed task. |
| outputKey | [string](#string) | The output's key from the returned task. |
| outputData | [string](#string) | The output's data from the returned task, encoded in JSON. |













</tab>
</tabs>

## ExecuteTask

Execute a service's task through [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md).

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">















#### ExecuteTaskRequest
The request's data for the `ExecuteTask` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__",
  "taskKey":   "__TASK_KEY__",
  "inputData": "{\"foo\":\"bar\"}"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |
| taskKey | [string](#string) | The task's key to execute. |
| inputData | [string](#string) | The inputs of the task to execute, encoded in JSON. |



























</tab>

<tab title="Reply">













#### ExecuteTaskReply
The reply's data of the `ExecuteTask` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "executionID": "__EXECUTION_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| executionID | [string](#string) | The unique identifier of the execution. |





























</tab>
</tabs>

## StartService

Start a service. The service must be already deployed to [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md).

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">

































#### StartServiceRequest
The request's data for the `StartService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |









</tab>

<tab title="Reply">































#### StartServiceReply
Reply of `StartService` API doesn't contain any data.











</tab>
</tabs>

## StopService

Stop a service. The service must be already deployed to [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md).

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">





































#### StopServiceRequest
The request's data for the `StopService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |





</tab>

<tab title="Reply">



































#### StopServiceReply
Reply of `StopService` API doesn't contain any data.







</tab>
</tabs>

## DeployService

Deploy a service to [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md). This will give you an unique identifier which is used to interact with the service.

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">









#### DeployServiceRequest
The request's data for `DeployService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "service": {
    "name": "serviceX",
    "events": {
      "eventX": {
        "data": {
          "dataX": { "type": "String" }
        }
      }
    },
    "tasks": {
      "taskX": {
        "inputs": {
          "foo": { "type": "String" }
        },
        "outputs": {
          "outputX": {
            "data": {
              "resX": { "type": "String" }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| url | [string](#string) | Git repo url of service. If url provided, stream will be closed after 
first receive. |
| chunk | [bytes](#bytes) | Chunks of gzipped tar archive of service. If chunk provided, stream will 
be closed after all chunks sent. |

































</tab>

<tab title="Reply">







#### DeployServiceReply
The reply's data of `DeployService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| status | [string](#string) | status will be sent after each status change. |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | serviceID will be sent as the last message of stream. |
| validationError | [string](#string) |  |



































</tab>
</tabs>

## DeleteService

Delete a service from Core. This function only deletes a deployed service in [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md). If the service's code is on your computer, the source code will not be deleted.

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">





#### DeleteServiceRequest
Request's data of the `DeleteService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |





































</tab>

<tab title="Reply">



#### DeleteServiceReply
Reply of `DeleteService` API doesn't contain any data.







































</tab>
</tabs>

## ListServices

List all services already deployed in [Core](../guide/start-here/core.md).

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">























#### ListServicesRequest
Reply of `ListServices` API doesn't contain any data.



















</tab>

<tab title="Reply">





















#### ListServicesReply
The reply's data of the `ListServices` API.

**Example**
```json
[{
  "service": {
    "name": "serviceX",
    "events": {
      "eventX": {
        "data": {
          "dataX": { "type": "String" }
        }
      }
    },
    "tasks": {
      "taskX": {
        "inputs": {
          "foo": { "type": "String" }
        },
        "outputs": {
          "outputX": {
            "data": {
              "resX": { "type": "String" }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}]
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| services | [service.Service](#service.Service)[] | The list of previously-deployed services' definitions. [Details here](./service-type.md). |





















</tab>
</tabs>

## GetService

Get the definition of an already-deployed service from its ID.

<tabs>
<tab title="Request">



















#### GetServiceRequest
The request's data for the `GetService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "serviceID": "__SERVICE_ID__"
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| serviceID | [string](#string) | The Service ID. Generated when using the [`DeployService` API](#deployservice). |























</tab>

<tab title="Reply">

















#### GetServiceReply
The reply's data of the `GetService` API.

**Example**
```json
{
  "service": {
    "name": "serviceX",
    "events": {
      "eventX": {
        "data": {
          "dataX": { "type": "String" }
        }
      }
    },
    "tasks": {
      "taskX": {
        "inputs": {
          "foo": { "type": "String" }
        },
        "outputs": {
          "outputX": {
            "data": {
              "resX": { "type": "String" }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```


| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| service | [service.Service](#service.Service) | Service's definition. [Details here](./service-type.md). |

























</tab>
</tabs>
